welcome back to another movie recap
today we take a look at a sci-fi drama
romance
called never let me go
spoilers ahead so watch out and take
care the movie starts with us finding
out that a breakthrough in medicine came
about in 1952
and by 1967 life expectancy passed 100
years of age
kathy our protagonist is standing in a
hospital she's 28 years old and has been
a carer of nine years
she watches on as one of her patients is
about to donate their organs
we flash back to school where kathy
tommy and ruth grew up
all the children are singing in assembly
students are reminded of hailsham that
they are special and are to remain
healthy
the children play sports and are kept
both fit and healthy the ball goes out
of bounds of the school
but tommy is too scared to go beyond a
teacher asks why and the children
explain they would come to harm if they
did
the children have bracelets on which
they must scan when leaving the school
to head into the grounds
tommy gets picked last and starts to
scream in frustration kathy approaches
tommy to help him but in anger and on
reflex
he strikes kathy across the face the
children line up to see a nurse
they see the bruise and question it they
are pleased it is only a bruise
kathy visits a new teacher who has
arrived at the boarding school
miss lucy she is young and wants to know
more about the children
miss lucy tells kathy she was trying to
calm tommy down after he was bullied in
the school yard and not to worry if he
wasn't good at sports
kathy joins tommy to eat school dinner
in the canteen tommy apologizes for
striking her
the children watch old movies while
kathy is caught looking at tommy
while acting tommy gets confused both
kathy and miss lucy help him through his
routine
all the while ruth looks on a simmering
anger and resentment in her eyes
it's late at night and ruth and kathy
are talking about how tommy has started
to change
madame maraclott arrives at the school
during assembly miss emily announces she
will be inspecting their artwork and
poetry
miss emily announces that a sale the
following day will take place
which all the children are delighted
with the children have collected tokens
to spend
the sale is old thrown away toys mostly
damaged and of poor quality that no one
wants
miss lucy finds it heartbreaking tommy
uses his tokens to buy kathy a present
a music cassette which lucy falls in
love with ruth looks on again
in anger miss lucy can't take it any
longer and decides to tell the children
the truth
she tells them that they are not like
normal children they have no family
they won't grow up to do great things
they will grow to an age in which they
will become
adults but only for a short time as they
have been bred to have their organs
harvested so others can live
a heartbreaking reality in an alternate
timeline miss lucy is then fired
to comfort each other tommy and kathy
hold hands
kathy then finds ruth talking to tommy
in private before she kisses him
years have passed and kathy is packing
her belongings into a small case to
leave
it's here we find out ruth and tommy
after all these years are still together
they are now 18 the children are to
leave hailsham to go to different
accommodations around the country until
they were old enough to start donating
their organs
they can live a little until that time
they meet children from other homes
they join others who about to leave for
the completion centers to start being
harvested
but now they are allowed to live their
lives at least for a short while
tommy joins cathy on a walk in the rain
a glimmer of romance
when back at the cottages ruth taunts
cathy that she has no one
well she does after having sex with ruth
tommy joins kathy in the barn while
she's looking at magazines she found in
the rubbish
ruth and kathy start talking ruth
believes that others from the home have
found her original
those which their jeans are taken from
in a cafe our trio try to act normal
but find adjusting to others hard while
in the cafe they feel as though the
normal people are watching them
rodney and chrissy discuss how they'd
like to be deferred for a few years
allowing them to live longer if they are
in love they soon realize this is a lie
and are scared as they are soon to start
the process
a sad realization they find roots
original but unfortunately it wasn't
them
ruth is filled with anger followed by
sadness ruth tells everyone how they are
modeled on the lowest of the low in
society
they head home to the cottages
heartbroken using their wrist straps to
log in that they are back
on another walk tommy thinks the gallery
might be true and that could be how they
can put off their donations
he asks kathy to tell them they are in
love tommy admits he couldn't be a carer
but kathy could be
while tommy and ruth are having sex
kathy has no choice but to listen
she puts on her cassette as ruth walks
in and tells kathy she knows she loves
tommy
but makes it clear that he could never
love her and would never leave ruth
it's then ruth tries to kiss kathy the
next day kathy decides she wants to be a
carer and starts the process
ruth and tommy do separate but then it's
too late and kathy has already started
her care training
they all start to go their separate ways
it's now 1994
kathy is working with her donors she
knows one day it will be her turn to
start donating but not yet
she visits one of her donors just before
they are about to donate unfortunately
they don't make it through the donation
and pass away
she then sees a screen on at his roof we
find out 10 years have passed
ruth has donated twice but they don't
think she will survive a third and will
complete her journey
kathy visits ruth she's weak and frail
they are both happy to see each other
we find out tommy has donated twice and
is still going strong
unlike ruth who doesn't think she will
survive her third donation
as ruth lies in bed they share a moment
in stories kathy takes ruth and they
head to find tommy
kathy runs to him as they embrace he
then goes to see ruth
the trio go on one last trip together to
the beach the same place they had heard
of the stories
an abandoned boat on the sands they sit
on the sands and think back of their
time at hailsham
looking forward to their short futures
kathy asks for forgiveness on keeping
them both apart
she admits they loved each other and she
was jealous and didn't want to be left
alone
she tries to get them a deferral she
gives them an address of who they need
to apply to
to get the deferral tommy shows kathy
his art she loves it
tommy is surprised as tommy rests kathy
reads to him as he lay in bed
it's here she finally kisses him before
they lay in bed together
kathy heads to the address ruth gave her
she tells tommy
they hold hands as he draws some more
showing his scars
kathy tells ruth they are going to try
and defer sadly ruth then passes away
during her third donation
her body is just left in the theater
after she passes kathy and tommy head to
the address here they meet madam
she looks shocked inside her home they
tell her how they love each other and
ask for a deferral
she apologizes the former headmistress
miss emily joins them
now old and in a wheelchair she
remembers them both she tells them that
hailsham the reason for the art was to
prove the children were people and that
they deserve a chance to live a normal
life
but mankind wasn't willing to accept it
as people would rather have longer lives
and not worry about the consequences of
their actions
they realize deferral is a lie and it
doesn't exist it never did
heartbroken they leave madden tells them
that she wishes she could help them
that's all they ever wanted to do
on the drive home tommy has a breakdown
like he did as a child back in hailsham
kathy embraces him we are then back at
the start of the movie
it's ruth looking on as tommy is going
in for his third donation
their eyes meet before the operation
starts tommy never makes it and passes
away
it's two weeks later kathy has lost her
two closest friends
we find out it is now kathy's turn her
first donation will be in less than one
month's time
the movie ends as she looks onto a
sunset not knowing if her life was much
different than those
she will donate for to save their lives
a sad ending to an alternate reality
if you enjoyed the recap of never let me
go then why not hit that like button to
show your support and why not watch
another video on screen now
until our next recap stay safe take care
and i'll see you soon my friends